.TH START-COMICOFTHEDAY 1 "May 2026" "Comic of the Day 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
start-comicoftheday \- start the Comic of the Day web application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B start-comicoftheday.sh
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-debug\fR]
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-cache\-dir\fR \fIPATH\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Activates the Python virtual environment, loads \fI.env\fR, and launches
the Comic of the Day Flask application using the \fBcomicoftheday\fR
entry point.
If the virtual environment does not exist, \fBbootstrap.sh\fR is run first.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
Bind address. Overrides \fBFLASK_HOST\fR environment variable and the
\fIapp.host\fR setting in the YAML config. Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
TCP port to listen on. Overrides \fBFLASK_PORT\fR and \fIapp.port\fR.
Default: \fI5000\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
Enable Flask debug mode with auto-reload. Do not use in production.
.TP
.BR \-\-config " " \fIPATH\fR
Path to an alternate YAML configuration file.
Default: \fIconfig/comicoftheday.yaml\fR relative to the project root.
.TP
.BR \-\-cache\-dir " " \fIPATH\fR
Directory for daily JSON cache files. Overrides \fIcache.dir\fR in config.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .env
Required. Contains \fBMARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY\fR and \fBMARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY\fR.
Copy from \fI.env.example\fR and populate before first run.
.TP
.I config/comicoftheday.yaml
Main configuration file. Character IDs, API settings, and server options.
.TP
.I cache/YYYY-MM-DD.json
Daily cached comic data. One file per calendar day; files older than 7 days
are purged automatically on startup.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MARVEL_PUBLIC_KEY
Marvel API public key (loaded from .env).
.TP
.B MARVEL_PRIVATE_KEY
Marvel API private key (loaded from .env). Never exposed to the browser.
.TP
.B FLASK_HOST, FLASK_PORT, FLASK_DEBUG, FLASK_SECRET_KEY
Override the corresponding \fIapp.*\fR settings in the YAML config.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stop-comicoftheday (1)
